Hey guys, 
This week we’ll be discussing the concept of "Youtubability" - 
another important game guideline. 


Youtubability A key driver of youtubability is the clarity of your gameplay to a potential player.
Gameplay clarity will help you achieve the full potential of your game by working on getting the lowest possible CPIs for your games.
Many elements can be used to make your game clearer :
For instance, ask yourself if a user’s inte-raction with the game is evident,
for example, can she tell which character she controls? Is the objective clear?
Does it look fun to play? Has she understood the game after 1 second (great!) or after 10 seconds (too long!).
Make sure to use colours to help indicate the gameplay rules. 
For instance, in Helix Jump, obstacles are clearly contrasted (in orange here) and instantly recognized as a threat. 

If you want to run user tests with f riends and family or even random people in the street,
' it is interesting to show them the 30 second video before making them try to prototype 
in order to understand their expectations from the video vs.
the actual game they try.

Make it obvious with visual elements that help understand the objective and controls of the game, 
like with the target used in Viatcheslav Tarasov’s Purple Diver or Fabrika Games’ Draw Car with the space dedicated to drawing. 

People will be watching the gameplay videos of your games on their phone’s Facebook feed,
everything will seem smaller than when displayed in Unity or as a video on your computer screen. 
You should also consider whether your gameplay video is understandable
if someone watches iton a small screen. 
With an average watch time of 3 to 5 seconds, 
this is an accelerated elevator pitch!

Think of the moment when you decide to click on a random video on YouTube 
just because it has an attractive thumbnail - it’s the same idea for your game videos.

Tip of the week

Livestreams we hold every two weeks are an interesting resource for you to consult. 
There are plenty of relevant subjects covered to guide and orient you towards best practices 
and they are all replayable on the dashboard so don’t hesitate to check them out!


The next publishing livestream will be held this Thursday (7th Novem-ber) at 3pm CET (Paris time).
You’ll receive a reminder e-mail tomorrow.We look forward to seeing your next prototype!The Publishing teamLivestream

Tip of the week 
Livestreams we hold every two weeks are an interesting resource for you to consult. 
There are plenty of relevant subjects covered to guide and orient you towards 
best practices and they are all replayable on the dashboard so don’t hesitate to check them out! 

Livestream 
The next publishing livestream will be held this Thursday (7th Novem-ber) at 3pm CET (Paris time). 
You’ll receive a reminder e-mail tomorrow. 
We look forward to seeing your next prototype!
The Publishing team